=head1 NAME

releng -- Incunabulum Release Engineering Policy

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document is (for now) a collection of loose notes and otherwise
disorganised, disjointed thoughts concerning how releases of Incunabulum will
work. Basically, I'm writing this document for myself, to force myself to think
about how I want Incunabulum releases and such to work.

=over 4

=head2 Release Schedule

Releases will be made when they're made. I don't believe in the "release early,
release often" philosophy. I feel that it leads to a rushed development model.
If you really want the latest code, check it out of the repository. Eventually
(i.e. once there's actually enough of a project to warrant it) there'll be
nightly tarballs available as well.

=back

=over 4

=head2 Release Versioning

Ah, the second biggest bikeshed issue of release engineering. I really like the
way that the Mozilla people do releases of Mozilla. It clearly marks each
release as alpha, beta, or stable quality. Incunabulum's >=1.0 releases will
follow this policy. Releases <1.0 are alpha quality, unless otherwise stated.
The declaration of a <1.0 version as beta quality does B<not> ensure that any
subsequent releases are of the same quality. The 1.0 release will be made -- as
all releases themselves -- when deemed appropriate.

=back

=over 4

=head2 Branches, Trunks, and Tags -- Oh My!

I also like the FreeBSD methodology of maintaining more than one active
development track in addition to HEAD. This results in what are called -STABLE
and security ... erm, errata branches. There's a lot of diversity here, so it
bears some explanation.

[Editor's note: I wrote the following paragraphs in the first couple of weeks of
September, before FreeBSD 5.3 was released and before RELENG_5 was branched.]

FreeBSD code tags are numerically-based, and cyclical. What this means is that a
few core procedures repeat themselves for every major release. Each major
release of the form ${number}.0 starts out as -CURRENT / HEAD. After a
significant stabilisation period, -CURRENT becomes -STABLE and the major version
of -CURRENT increases, and its minor number is reset to zero. Thus, as FreeBSD
5.x is prepared for being the next -STABLE branch, -CURRENT is at 6.0. The
actual CVS tags used are of the form RELENG_${number}, where ${number} is the
major version. Note, though, that HEAD never uses this convention. Since
releases are actually cut from the -STABLE and -CURRENT tags, there's no such
thing as 5-STABLE or 6-CURRENT. Hence, there are machines that run 4.10-STABLE
and 6.0-CURRENT. However, people are lazy, and thus they refer to to their
machines as using code from those nonexistent tags.

There's also the concept of errata branches, as mentioned above. What this means
is that after a new release from one of the -CURRENT or -STABLE tags, a certain
number of previous releases are supported by bug and security fixes. This is
done in order to ease the upgrading process, and as general product support.

I plan to support all of the above mentioned things in the Incunabulum release
cycle. The number of errata branches that will be supported shall initially
start at two. This may increase or decrease as time and resources permit.

=back

=back

=head1 DOCUMENT VERSION 

$Id: releng.pod 14 2007-07-07 03:35:33Z apeiron $ 
